-PROLOGUE
*Raziel enters the Chronoplast chamber, and surveys its tiered walkways and arcane dials,
*noting both the mysterious device suspended from the domed ceiling, and the undulating
*portal on the far side of the chamber. None of this interests him. He is looking for Kain.
*Raziel hears a voice, and Kain reveals himself as he steps out from the shadows of the
*upper tier.
#ΚΑΙΝ
At last.
I must say I'm disappointed in your progress. I imagined you would be here sooner.
Tell me – did it trouble you to murder your brothers?
*Raziel slowly descends the stairway, keeping his eyes locked on Kain.
#RAZIEL
Did it trouble you when you ordered me into the Abyss?

*Kain's only response is ironic laughter. He steps back toward one of the arcane dials and
*prepares to turn it.
#ΚΑΙΝ
Eternity is relentless, Raziel.
When I first stole into this chamber, centuries ago, I did not fathom the true power of
knowledge.
*Kain throws the switch, and the Chronoplast device responds.
To know the future, Raziel – to see its paths and streams tracing out into the infinite...
As a man, I could never have contained such forbidden truths.
But each of us is so much more than we once were.
Do you not feel with all your soul how we have become like gods?
And as such, are we not indivisible? As long as a single one of us stands, we are legion...

*Kain descends the main staircase, and moves toward the second-tier dials.
#KAIN
Our futures are predestined –
Moebius foretold mine aeons ago. We each play out the parts fate has written for us.
Free will is an illusion.
*Kain punctuates his statement by throwing the second switch. Raziel glares up at him from
*the floor of the chamber.
#RAZIEL
I found the Tomb of Sarafan, Kain.
How could you profane a priest by turning him into a vampire?
*Furious, Raziel launches himself at Kain – who easily stops Raziel in mid-air with one
*hand, and holds him by the throat, at arm's length.

#ΚΑΙΝ
How could I not?
One must keep his friends close, Raziel – and his enemies even closer.
*Kain effortlessly hurls Raziel to the lower floor of the chamber, and then drops down
*himself, approaching Raziel's sprawled figure.
#ΚΑΙΝ
Who better to serve me than those whose passion transcends all notions of good and evil?
*Raziel rises slowly, enraged and humiliated, and wheels on Kain.
#RAZIEL
The Sarafan were saviors, defending Nosgoth from the corruption that we represent.
My eyes are opened, Kain – I find no nobility in the unlife you rudely forced on my
unwilling corpse!

*Raziel lunges at Kain. Kain evades the blow, but Raziel attacks again and pins Kain
*against the wall, his forearm to his throat.
*Kain is unfazed by Raziel's attack – he is composed, even slightly amused. He allows
*Raziel to pin him there momentarily, and continues to taunt him, their faces inches apart.
#KAIN
You may have uncovered your past, but you know nothing of it.
You think the Sarafan were noble, altruistic?
*Kain breaks Raziel's grip and propels him away with a blast of telekinetic energy. Raziel
*flies backward and slams into a buttress with bone-shattering force.
*Kain laughs and moves toward the final dial.
Don't be simple.
Their agenda was the same as ours.

*Kain throws the final switch. The arms of the Chronoplast device descend, and the portal
*flares into life.
#ΚΑΙΝ
[(mockingly)
You nearly had me, Raziel...
*Kain vanishes in a flash of light, and reappears on the upper tier, in front of the
portal.
But this is not where – or how – it ends. Fate promises more twists before this drama
unfolds completely.
*Kain turns and strides deliberately through the portal. Raziel gets to his feet and races
*up the stairway. He pauses briefly, then leaps through the portal to pursue Kain.

*Raziel finds himself floating in darkness, and hears an unfamiliar voice calling to him
*out of the ether. As Raziel drifts to the floor and the chamber coalesces, Moebius the
*Time Streamer steps out of the mist to greet him.
#MOEBIUS
Raziel...
Redeemer and destroyer.
Pawn and messiah.
Welcome, time-spanned soul. Welcome... to your destiny.

-CHAPTER 1 – ARRIVAL
*Raziel has just leapt through the Chronoplast portal in pursuit of Kain, fueled by blind
*rage and a thirst for vengeance. As his surroundings coalesce, he finds himself in a domed
*room – similar to the Chronoplast chamber, but smaller in scale.
*Moebius, the Time Streamer, steps forward to greet him.
#MOEBIUS
'Where am I?' is the usual question.
In your case, 'when?' might be more apt.
*Raziel recognizes Moebius, and knows how dangerous he is. As he raises the Reaver in
*defense, the orb on Moebius's staff flares brightly. The wraith-blade sputters out and
*retracts, its wisps of energy dissipating completely.
*Alarmed, and now even more suspicious of the sorcerer's motives, Raziel advances on
*Moebius.

#RAZIEL
Very well, you old snake – if you'd prefer I use my bare hands...
*Raziel lunges at Moebius and grabs him by his scrawny neck, throwing him up against the
*wall. Moebius feigns surprise and fear for a moment –
#MOEBIUS
This is completely unexpected!
This orb disables our vampire enemies, leaving them helpless and incapacitated.
Strangely, it seems to have the same effect on that peculiar weapon of yours.
But you must believe me – I mean you no harm.
#RAZIEL
You can drop the benevolent façade, Moebius.
I know who – and what – you are.
I should kill you where you stand...

*As Raziel speaks, Moebius's demeanor changes. He no longer appears to be an addled old
*magician – this Moebius is composed, confident, and completely in control.
#MOEBIUS
[(laughing)
Perhaps you should, my boy. But you don't.
*Raziel tightens his grip a bit on Moebius's throat.
#RAZIEL
Are you so certain of that, Moebius?
*Moebius appears completely unfazed by Raziel's threats.
#MOEBIUS
My role as Time Guardian affords me a certain level of omniscience, Raziel.
No, you don't kill me. That honor belongs to your maker, Kain, some thirty years from now.

*Raziel releases him roughly, with disgust.
#RAZIEL
Hmph. You two are a pair – you're just as fatalistic as he is.
#MOEBIUS
[(laughing softly)
Death comes for us all, Raziel.
It's just a matter of time.
*Completely composed, Moebius turns his back on Raziel and exits the chamber.
#RAZIEL
How is it that you know my name? We have never met.
#MOEBIUS
On the contrary, Raziel – I know you very well...
And it grieves me to see how cruelly Kain has used you.
I knew you when you were one of the Sarafan brotherhood, Raziel.
We were even close.

#RAZIEL
[(with revulsion)
Oh, please.
#MOEBIUS
Fortunately, you need not love me now to be my ally...
*Raziel follows Moebius into the adjacent room – the walls of this octagonal chamber are
*decorated with murals memorializing the six martyred Circle guardians, slaughtered here
*many centuries ago.
*The slain guardians are depicted in beatific imagery, while their murderer – the vampire
*Vorador – is demonized.
*In the center of the room stands a distinctive basin engraved with arcane symbols.
#RAZIEL
Are we within the Stronghold of the Sarafan priesthood?

#MOEBIUS
Yes, but the glorious days of the Sarafan have long since passed, I'm afraid.
This is a more... cynical and indecorous age.
My mercenary army now inhabits this stronghold – we strive to honor the memory of the
Sarafan with our own humble crusade.
*Raziel studies the surrounding murals, intrigued.
#RAZIEL
Is this the vampire Vorador?
#MOEBIUS
Yes, the scourge of the Circle. The most depraved and decadent example of his whole
degenerate race.
He slaughtered six of my fellow Guardians as they cowered, defenseless, in this room.

#RAZIEL
[(incredulous)
And you somehow survived this massacre?
#MOEBIUS
I, and two others. The Circle was devastated; only we three were spared.
#RAZIEL
[(disdainful)
How convenient.
You'll forgive me if I don't naively devour every scrap of information you toss me.
You have a reputation for deceit.
#MOEBIUS
And who has slandered me so?
Your malefactor Kain? The one who betrayed and destroyed you? Our common enemy?
Consider the source, before you judge me too harshly.

#MOEBIUS
We'll forget about rekindling our old friendship, then. But consider an alliance based
on our common ground –
We both want Kain dead.
I can help you do it.
#RAZIEL
You don't want to meddle in this, old man.
I know all about your sordid little schemes, but you're simply out of your depth on this
one.
#MOEBIUS
You underestimate me, Raziel.
Let me show you...
*Moebius ignites the four candles that stand on the basin's edge, and an image slowly
*materializes in the mystical waters of the bowl.

*The image in the basin coalesces, and Kain is revealed. Raziel leans over the basin and
*peers in, mesmerized.
#MOEBIUS
Even now, Kain is lying in wait for you, unaware that I've snatched you out of the
time-stream and brought you here, to me.
*The image wavers, and we see that Kain is standing in a clearing, beneath the Pillars of
*Nosgoth, apparently waiting...
See how he lingers at the very Pillars he is destined to destroy, foolishly confident that
he has eluded your grasp.
#RAZIEL
[(fascinated)
The Pillars are still standing in this time?

#MOEBIUS
Yes, Raziel – they are the embodiment of the divine force which preserves the life of our
world.
We who serve the Pillars maintain their delicate balance – and Kain is destined to be the
fulcrum upon which that balance turns.
I believe you have already endured the wasteland wrought by his terrible, selfish decision.
Kain's very existence is a cancer upon this world. As long as he lives, all of Nosgoth is
in peril.
*The image in the basin wavers and fades out completely.
#MOEBIUS
You may never again be human, Raziel...
But you can re-embrace the essence of your humanity, and the nobility of your Sarafan
heritage.
Go to him, Raziel, and end this.

#MOEBIUS
But first you will need to find your way out of the Stronghold – and in this, I'm afraid, I
cannot help you.
My soldiers will not understand your appearance here; they will try to kill you.
You needn't fear them, of course. They're no match for you.
Try to keep the casualties to a minimum, but do what you have to do.
[(ominously)
All great movements require a few martyrs...
*Moebius vanishes, leaving Raziel alone in the chamber.

-CHAPTER 2 – THE REAVER CONVERGENCE
*Raziel enters the choir area of the Sanctuary for the first time, and feels an
*inexplicable distortion which intensifies as he approaches the central chapel.
#RAZIEL V.O.
As I neared the Stronghold's inner sanctum, a strange sensation crept over me – an
indescribable feeling of displacement, a sense of vertigo as reality itself appeared to
warp and bend around me.
The disturbance seemed to emanate from the Sanctuary's furthest chapel. As I cautiously
approached, the sense of dislocation intensified with each step.

*As Raziel enters the chapel, he sees a stained-glass window memorializing William's murder
*at Kain's hands. At the end of the chapel stands the sarcophagus of the martyred king.
#RAZIEL V.O.
So this was the tomb of the beloved King William the Just – beatified here as the martyr
and catalyst of Moebius's crusade.
I was reminded of Kain's journey as a fledgling vampire –
How Moebius coerced him to travel back in history and assassinate William, thus igniting a
genocidal hatred of vampires among the citizens of Nosgoth.

*Raziel proceeds into the chapel and stands before the sarcophagus, which he realizes now
*serves also as an altar – for here, clutched loosely in the hands of William's effigy,
*is the Soul Reaver, its blade broken in two.
#RAZIEL V.O.
And here I discovered the source of the displacement – the Soul Reaver itself, laid out
like a holy relic... And broken, apparently in the battle between William and Kain.
I had not thought such a thing was possible...
Until, of course, Kain shattered the blade against me when he tried to strike me down.
*Raziel looks at his right hand contemplatively.
Thus the captive spirit inhabiting the Reaver was released – and binding itself to me,
became my symbiotic weapon.

*Mesmerized by the Reaver's presence here, Raziel tentatively reaches out to touch the
*sword. As if in sympathetic response, the wraith-blade begins to manifest of its own will.
#RAZIEL V.O.
And so the Reaver met its former self, still imprisoned in this corporeal shell...
I watched, mesmerized, as the wraith blade uncoiled itself, and snaked down the length of
the physical blade...
*As it passes over the hilt of the sword, Raziel's hand involuntarily lunges forward and
*clamps down. The Reaver has taken control.
Embracing its twin, its mirror self, the Reaver's long-dormant spirit was now fully
aroused.
And for the first time, I felt the true presence of this other entity – willful, ravenous,
and deranged from thousands of years of imprisonment...
The Reaver was now in command – and I, now merely its helpless host, felt my soul being
leeched to restore the blade.

*Raziel watches in helpless horror as the Reaver draws his soul-energy through his arm and
*into the broken blade. The two halves of the Soul Reaver come together and are instantly
*re-fused.
*Just before he is drained completely, the Reaver relents, and Raziel recovers control.
#RAZIEL V.O.
But the Reaver knew better than to destroy its host – and just as I neared the brink of
oblivion, the blade released its hold on me.
As I recovered, I realized we were now bound together in a fragile alliance – the Reaver no
longer merely my symbiotic weapon, but a sentient parasite, competing for control.

*As Raziel recovers, he realizes that Moebius is behind him, watching with intense
*fascination. Enraged, Raziel wheels on Moebius and menaces him with the now-conjoined
*Reaver blades.
#RAZIEL
What have you done to me, Moebius?!
Is this your trap?!
#MOEBIUS
[(apprehensive)
How mine?!
Don't forget it was Kain who led you here, not I!
While you curse me – the only soul in Nosgoth ready to guide and assist you – Kain laughs
at our folly and revels in your dismay.

*Raziel raises the intertwined blades threateningly –
#RAZIEL
These blades now coiled in sinister embrace have inspired terror in the hearts of creatures
far more durable than you, old man.
Bound together as they are, I can only imagine what they could do to your soul's fragile
shell.
#MOEBIUS
Raziel, I beg you to stay your hand.
This was none of my doing. I have sought only to aid you in your righteous quest.
#RAZIEL
[(mocking)
Why, you're trembling, Moebius. Has your confidence abandoned you?
You seem to have made a fatal error by leaving your precious staff behind.
Is that where all your courage comes from?

#MOEBIUS
[(desperate)
Listen to me, Raziel – you don't know what you're doing.
I have taken an enormous risk by appearing here before you, so defenseless, yet eager to
prove my good intentions.
If there's anything left of the Sarafan in you, you won't do this.
While you threaten me, your true enemy eludes you!
#RAZIEL
Don't concern yourself with Kain, old man. He'll join you in hell soon enough.
As you said, Death comes for us all...
*Raziel raises the entwined blades, fully prepared to strike Moebius down.
#MOEBIUS
Yes... the Wheel of Fate demands it.

*Moebius's statement stays Raziel's hand momentarily –
#RAZIEL
What did you say?
#MOEBIUS
The Wheel of Fate – the inexorable cycle of death and rebirth to which all men are
compelled.
We serve the same God, Raziel.
*Moebius grows more confident as he sees that this revelation is having some effect.
To strike me down would be striking God's own attendant, and I don't believe even you would
take that risk.

*Raziel throws the Soul Reaver away in disgust. The wraith-blade untwines itself and
*dissipates as it coils back into Raziel's hand.
#RAZIEL
I tire of your games, Moebius.
Now that I know you fear me, I needn't concern myself with you.
Kain is waiting for me.
#MOEBIUS
Go, then, Raziel. Seek Kain out and destroy him, in the name of the One God we both serve.
You, who were once a Sarafan priest – murdered, profaned, destroyed and reborn again from
His mercy...
You are now most powerfully equipped to be His agent – His instrument of restoration and
retribution.
#RAZIEL
My own vengeance is motivation enough.

*Raziel turns his back on Moebius and exits the chapel.
*Moebius closes the gate behind Raziel, and locks himself safely inside the chapel.
*He breathes a sigh of relief, then turns and says quietly to himself –
#MOEBIUS
By my soul, you almost had me, my little blue assassin.
But that'll be the one and only chance you get, I assure you of that.
*Alone now in the Sanctuary, Raziel stops to examine his newly-enhanced symbiotic weapon –
#RAZIEL V.O.
I could now summon the blade at will, regardless of my strength.
But once summoned, the blade's ravenous appetite could not be contained.
It devoured the souls of its victims... And if I allowed it to become over-aroused, the
Reaver would now turn its hunger on me.

-CHAPTER 3 – THE HEART OF DARKNESS
*Raziel discovers a stained glass window in the Stronghold, depicting the murder of the
*vampire Janos Audron at the hands of the Sarafan.
#RAZIEL V.O.
So this was the legendary Janos Audron – reputed to have been the most ancient and
diabolical vampire to have ever existed.
According to folklore, he lived high in the cliffs of Nosgoth's northern mountains, and
preyed mercilessly on the defenseless villagers below.
His reign of terror ended when the Sarafan finally hunted him down and tore his throbbing
heart from his still-living body.
This relic came to be known as the 'Heart of Darkness,' and was supposedly imbued with the
power to restore vampiric unlife. The Sarafan therefore guarded it carefully, lest the
Heart fall into the hands of their enemies.

#RAZIEL V.O.
[(continued)
But I wondered – could Janos Audron truly have been as monstrous as depicted here?
Or was this merely artistic license by the Sarafan, who sought to lionize themselves by
demonizing their darkest enemy?

-CHAPTER 4 – THE CORRUPTION OF THE PILLARS
*Raziel reaches the Pillars clearing, where Moebius told him Kain would be waiting. Raziel
*pauses briefly, struck by the pristine beauty of the Pillars. In this era, the Pillars
*stand straight and rise infinitely into the sky, their white marble columns gleaming in
*the sunlight.
#RAZIEL V.O.
The Pillars of Nosgoth... pristine, whole, and uncorrupted.
I had never beheld them in this undefiled state – yet something profound and indelible
resonated within me at the sight.
[(then, seeing Kain)
And there, waiting at the very heart of the Pillars, was the canker that was destined to
destroy them.
*Kain stands in the center of the Pillars platform, his back to the clearing's entrance. He
*appears to be surveying the Pillars calmly, waiting for something.

*Raziel stalks up behind Kain, readying the wraith-blade. Completely aware and composed,
*Kain addresses Raziel without turning.
#ΚΑΙΝ
I know you are there, Raziel.
#RAZIEL
Moebius led me to you, Kain – though I might have guessed you'd meet me here.
*Kain continues to speak with his back to Raziel, turning his head only slightly.
#ΚΑΙΝ
And if Moebius told you I was hidden on the underside of hell, would you throw yourself
into oblivion to pursue me?
Moebius trawls for the ignorant and unwary, hauling his gasping prey from the streams of
their destinies.
Stay out of his net, Raziel –

*Raziel interrupts, impatient and tired of this long chase.
#RAZIEL
Spare me your elaborate metaphors, Kain.
I have pursued you here for one purpose – you will pay for your betrayal, and Balance will
thus be restored to Nosgoth.
#KAIN
And whose will is satisfied then, the will of Raziel, or Moebius?
#RAZIEL
Would I be better manipulated by you, Kain?
Now turn and face me; the chase is over.

*Kain doesn't turn, but walks slowly forward, approaching the central Balance Pillar while
*he speaks.
#ΚΑΙΝ
This isn't a chase, Raziel – we are merely passengers on the wheel of destiny, describing a
perfect circle to this point. We have been brought here for a reason.
I have seen the beginning and the end of our story, however – and the tale is crude and
ill-conceived.
We must rewrite the ending of it, you and I.
#RAZIEL
[(frustrated)
Face me, Kain. Even you shouldn't die a coward's death.

*Kain finally turns to respond, having delayed Raziel as long as he needed.
#KAIN
Isn't it customary to grant the condemned a final request?
#RAZIEL
I recall no such courtesy from you.
#ΚΑΙΝ
Indulge me, Raziel.
All I ask is that you listen.
*At this moment, an unearthly, disembodied wailing begins to be audible, increasing in
*volume as it fills the clearing.
#ΚΑΙΝ
This is the sublime moment of our undoing, Raziel – the ineffable fulcrum upon which swings
the entirety of our history.
This is where all of Nosgoth is betrayed.

#ΚΑΙΝ
[(continuing)
In this instant, Ariel – the Balance Guardian – is murdered by dark forces bent on
overthrowing the Pillars.
Her spirit is just now tearing free, lost in the ether, trying to find its way here.
You have already seen how she comes to haunt these Pillars –
#RAZIEL
[(interrupting)
– bound here by your refusal to die. You are the reason this land becomes diseased – as
long as you remain alive you condemn Nosgoth to an eternity of decay.
*Kain gently raises his hand to silence Raziel, and intently urges him –
#ΚΑΙΝ
Be still, Raziel. See this.

*The sky darkens, the wind begins to gust, and birds scatter from the clearing in alarm. A
*low, nearly sub-audible rumble swells, as though a massive storm is gathering.
*Kain continues, with some urgency –
#ΚΑΙΝ
As Ariel dies, I am being born to take her place as Balance Guardian.
Such is my destiny.
*Suddenly, the entire clearing is rocked by an indescribable force –
*A telepathic blast bursts across the landscape with a thunderous rumble, and distorting
*waves of energy ripple across the clearing. Kain visibly tenses as he absorbs the
*onslaught of this psychic attack. The Pillars, initially white and pristine, begin to
*crack and corrode as they turn gray with corruption.
#RAZIEL
...my god...

*As the telepathic assault recedes, Kain begins to speak again –
#KAIN
At the moment of my first cry, Ariel's beloved – the Guardian Nupraptor – finds her corpse.
Wracked with grief and tormented by suspicions of treachery, Nupraptor plunges into a
madness which overflows and infects all of the Guardians, who are symbiotically bound.
Including me.
The repercussions of Ariel’s assassination were expertly calculated...
The entire Circle descends into madness, and I am tainted at the moment of my birth –
instantly rendered incapable of fulfilling the role destiny has prepared for me.

#RAZIEL
Shall I show you the same mercy you showed the rest of the Circle, then?
You blithely murdered them to restore their Pillars, yet your hand faltered when it came to
the final sacrifice.
What makes you exempt, Kain? You're merely the last man standing.
Why condemn me for simply carrying out what you hadn't the courage to do yourself?
#KAIN
Let's drop the moral posturing, shall we? We both know there's no altruism in this pursuit.
Your reckless indignation led you here – I counted on it.
*Kain sees that Raziel is bristling at this insult.
There's no shame in it, Raziel – revenge is motivation enough. At least it's honest.
Hate me, but do it honestly.

*Kain resumes his account of Nosgoth's history –
#ΚΑΙΝ
Thirty years hence, I am presented with a dilemma – let's call it a two-sided coin.
If the coin falls one way, I sacrifice myself and thus restore the Pillars.
But as the last surviving vampire in Nosgoth, this would mean the annihilation of our
species. Moebius made sure of that.
If the coin lands on the reverse, I refuse the sacrifice and thus doom the Pillars to an
eternity of collapse.
Either way, the game is rigged.
#RAZIEL
We agree then that the Pillars are crucial, and must be restored?

#ΚΑΙΝ
Yes, Raziel – that's why we've come full-circle to this place.
#RAZIEL
So after all this you make my case for me. To end this stalemate, you must die so that new
Guardians can be born.
#ΚΑΙΝ
The Pillars don't belong to them, Raziel...
*Kain gestures derisively, indicating humanity in general.
...they belong to us.
#RAZIEL
[(disgusted)
Your arrogance is boundless, Kain.

#ΚΑΙΝ
[(laughing softly)
There's a third option – a monumental secret, hidden in your very presence here. But it's a
secret you have to discover for yourself.
Unearth your destiny, Raziel. It's all laid out for you here.
#RAZIEL
You said it yourself, Kain – there are only two sides to your coin.
#ΚΑΙΝ
Apparently so. But suppose you throw a coin enough times...
...suppose one day, it lands on its edge.
*Kain vanishes, leaving Raziel standing in the clearing alone.

-CHAPTER 5 – THE ELDER GOD
*Raziel cautiously descends an ancient, subterranean passageway, and finds himself at the
*threshold of a magnificent underground grotto. The Pillars descend into this chamber,
*intersecting a platform engraved with arcane symbols. Water surrounds the dais, and
*reflected light dapples the surrounding walls.
*Raziel walks along the platform, surveying the murals on the surrounding walls. He
*recognizes his own ragged form in these heroic figures, and holds up his hand, mentally
*comparing his anatomy to theirs. He's trying to put the pieces together.
#RAZIEL V.O.
As I entered the chamber, I sensed that it had been sealed for hundreds – perhaps thousands
of years.
And while this room was clearly built when the Pillars were erected, I knew that no human
hand could have shaped this place – and that perhaps it had never been seen by human eyes.

#RAZIEL V.O.
The surrounding murals depicted a winged race, their features so like my own – but
beautiful, where mine were grotesque... and angelic, while mine were demonic.
I tried to decipher these images...
...a great war, but with combatants like none I had ever seen...
...the Pillars, raised by this winged race, who thus defeated their adversaries...
...the winged beings again, writhing in agony, apparently afflicted with the same
blood-thirst I had so recently suffered...
And throughout the chamber, inscribed everywhere, images of the Reaver itself.
Was this what Kain had urged me to discover?
I wondered...

*The voice of the Elder God bubbles up from the depths of the chamber, as if in answer to
*Raziel's unspoken question –
#ELDER GOD
Lies, Raziel...
*Raziel recognizes the voice, and realizes that it's rising from the watery depths beneath
*the platform. As he steps to the edge, he sees that the Pillars descend into the murky
*depths of the chamber – and coiled around them are the tentacles and amorphous mass of the
*Elder God itself.
#ELDER GOD
Do not be deceived.
#RAZIEL
Ah, my ancient 'benefactor'...
And I dared to hope we had parted ways forever. Your silence was refreshing, while it
lasted.
No doubt you have a conveniently inexpressible reason for your presence here?

#ELDER GOD
Do not be insolent, Raziel.
I am eternally present – here and everywhere; now and always.
I am the still center of the turning wheel, the hub of this world's destiny.
#RAZIEL
But perhaps not so omnipotent as you'd have me believe.
Your hold on me appears to be tenuous. I no longer seem to need you, yet I'm guessing you
still need me.
#ELDER GOD
This impudence is unworthy of you, Raziel.
Do not forget that you have a task to fulfill here.
You are indebted to me.

#RAZIEL
Indebted? You would have me show gratitude for a 'gift' I didn't ask to be bestowed?
Do you forget that you forced me to inhabit this vile carcass –
#ELDER GOD
– I restored you to yourself, Raziel.
It was Kain who destroyed you.
The very enemy you have just let slip through your grasp.
[(threatening)
Do not fail me, my servant...
#RAZIEL
I serve no one – not you, not Kain... and not your lackey, Moebius.
#ELDER GOD
[(ominously)
Moebius is my good servant.
I have many.

#RAZIEL
And if I tell Moebius that he's worshipping a giant squid, do you think his faith will
falter?
#ELDER GOD
You have grown willful, Raziel.
But beware – to embrace a serpent is to invite poison into your heart.
Kain is a sinuous beast; he will seduce and deceive you.
You pride yourself on your free will, yet you let that degenerate deter your resolve.
#RAZIEL
I harbor no illusions about his integrity, nor anyone else's.
In fact, I am beset by manipulation on all sides. I merely seek the truth.

#ELDER GOD
These are the fathomless truths, Raziel:
The agony of birth and death and rebirth – this is the Wheel of Fate, the purifying cycle
which sustains all life.
Vampires are an abomination, a plague which leeches this land of its spiritual strength.
They obstruct the flow of life and death – their souls stagnate in their wretched corpses.
But the Wheel must turn; Death is inexorable and cannot be denied.
Your destiny is irresistible, Raziel – you are my soul reaver, the scourge of the vampires,
reaper of their apostate souls.
Remain steadfast. End the vampires' parasitic curse, and restore Nosgoth.
Kain's blood belongs on your hands.

#RAZIEL
Kain indeed deserves to die, for condemning me to this repugnant form.
But if and when I kill him, it will be for me, alone, to decide.
#ELDER GOD
Kain destroyed you without a flicker of remorse.
He tore the soul from your noble corpse, and after you had served him faithfully for a
thousand years, he discarded you in the Abyss on a jealous whim.
Remember your rage, Raziel – let it guide your hand.

-CHAPTER 6 – THE VAMPIRE VORADOR
As Raziel exits the Dark Forge, he comes face to face with Vorador – the ancient vampire
leans casually against a column at the Forge's entrance, apparently waiting for Raziel
to emerge.
#VORADOR
You're a ragged excuse for a savior.
#RAZIEL
Vorador.
#VORADOR
I see my reputation precedes me.
#RAZIEL
It does.
#VORADOR
[(ironic)
All good, I hope.

*Vorador begins to walk slowly around Raziel as he speaks, examining him. He studies
*Raziel's cloven hands – so like his own – his blue skin, his ragged wings. Raziel stands
*still and allows Vorador to look him over.
#VORADOR
I've been watching you since you emerged from that accursed stronghold.
Strange that your arrival coincides with the corruption of the Pillars.
But I'm wondering – are you the catalyst of these events, or the answer to them?
#RAZIEL
[(steely)
I don't know what you mean.

#VORADOR
I will speak plainly, then.
I distrust your origins, stranger. Seeing you crawl from the putrid depths of Moebius's
Keep makes me question your purpose here.
And what should I make of your appearance? Not human, clearly – and more demon than
vampire.
And the Pillars – it is no mere coincidence that your arrival in that clearing heralded the
Pillars' decay.
And so I ask you plainly: are you the instrument of the Pillars' destruction, or their
salvation?
#RAZIEL
Neither.

#VORADOR
[(slightly annoyed)
Very well, let us look at the other side of the coin –
I have followed your journey, and watched as you blithely unlocked secrets that have been
sealed and forbidden for thousands of years.
The path you have been treading is open to only one being...
*Vorador trails off, as he realizes –
You don't know what you are, do you?
#RAZIEL
I have been many things...
If you find me ignorant, enlighten me.
*Vorador simply laughs, and turns away in disgust.

#VORADOR
What's the point – this world is beyond redemption.
Let the human cattle have it.
#RAZIEL
I would expect better than meek capitulation from you.
#VORADOR
Centuries of persecution have taught me well.
500 years ago, our race was nearly exterminated by the fanatical crusades of the Sarafan.
And now the same sick drama unfolds again. In merely a decade, Moebius's cutthroat citizen
army has nearly accomplished what the Sarafan could not.
[(then, to himself)
Vampires meddling in the affairs of men...
Look where it has brought us.

*Raziel considers for a moment, then asks –
#RAZIEL
What am I to make of these secrets I've uncovered, then? The depictions of the winged race,
the Pillars, and the Reaver?
*Vorador turns back to Raziel as he responds –
#VORADOR
Fairy tales, boy.
The delusions of an ancient culture, clinging to hope long after the world had discarded
them.
Their bloodline trickled away, until only one of the Ancients remained – sustained solely
by obligation and his unfaltering faith in the old prophesies.

*Vorador strides closer to Raziel as he speaks, until they are face to face.
#VORADOR
But you see, even if you are who you appear to be, it no longer matters...
You're simply too late.
Janos Audron – the Reaver Guardian, the last of the Ancients, and my maker – was murdered
by the Sarafan nearly five centuries ago.
He alone would have the answers you seek, but his secrets died with him.
I don't know how you've come even this far without his guidance – or without the Reaver,
stolen these 500 years ago by the Sarafan.
I am afraid, my friend, that you – and all of us – are out of luck.
*Vorador vanishes, leaving Raziel alone on the terrace.

-CHAPTER 7 – THE ELDER'S WARNING
*After having met the vampire Vorador, unearthed the secrets of the Dark Forge, and
*discovered more about the ancient architects of the Pillars, Raziel revisits the Elder God
*in the subterranean Pillars chamber.
#ELDER GOD
Ah, my wayward child returns...
#RAZIEL
Having unearthed more than you'd like, I suspect.
What am I to make of these ruins that litter the land, and these images here in this
chamber?
#ELDER GOD
Merely the deceits of a failed civilization.
You are being misled, Raziel.
This ancient race hoped to manipulate the future with these scrawled misdirections.

#ELDER GOD
You must tread carefully.
There are dark forces at work in this world, bent on subverting your true destiny.
#RAZIEL
I have no doubt of that.
The question is: am I in their presence right now?
#ELDER GOD
Your arrogance will spell your demise, Raziel.
Deny my will, and the arc of your destiny will reach a sudden conclusion.
#RAZIEL
Your threats are unmoving.
Even now I'm beyond your reach.
#ELDER GOD
[(ominous)
My reach is longer than you realize.
This is a very dangerous game you're playing, Raziel...

-CHAPTER 8 – HISTORY AND DESTINY COLLIDE
*As Raziel enters the Relic Hall within the Sanctuary, he discovers the fresh corpse of one
*of Moebius's guards. Raziel kneels to examine the body – the soldier's neck appears to
*have been snapped, his throat is torn open, and the pallor of his skin suggests that the
*victim has been drained of blood.
*Suspecting Kain, Raziel glances up and begins to rise. He addresses the seemingly-empty
*hall –
#RAZIEL
Show yourself, Kain.
*Kain's voice emerges from the depths of William's chapel –
#ΚΑΙΝ
Here, Raziel.
*Raziel crosses the threshold of the chapel – just as in his previous visit, he feels the
*distortion caused by the nearness of the Reaver. As he enters, he discovers Kain inside,
*standing before William's sarcophagus.

#ΚΑΙΝ
Everything is decided here...
You cannot comprehend the magnitude – the rapture and the tragedy – of this moment...
And yet you must if Nosgoth is to be dragged from the wreckage of its damnation.
*Whatever game Kain is playing, Raziel is tired of it. He responds irritably –
#RAZIEL
I understand only this, Kain –
That you and Moebius have impelled me to this moment simply means I can trust neither of
you.
I don't know who's pulling the strings, but it no longer matters – because I'm cutting
them.
I set my own course from here.
*Raziel turns to leave. Kain watches him go for a moment, then replies.

#KAIN
If it were only that simple.
*Raziel stops and responds, exasperated.
#RAZIEL
Your fatalism is tiresome, Kain.
#KAIN
...and profoundly ingrained, Raziel.
You must understand, our presence here doesn't alter history. You and I meet here because
we are compelled to – we have always met here.
History is irredeemable.
Drop a stone into a rushing river – the current simply courses around it and flows on as if
the obstruction were never there. You and I are pebbles, Raziel, and have even less hope of
disrupting the time-stream.
The continuum of history is simply too strong, too resilient.

#KAIN
Except... then how do we explain William, here?
*Kain gestures toward William's funereal effigy, and turns to face the sarcophagus.
The beloved boy-king turned tyrant.
*He lifts the Soul Reaver from the casket, and turns back to Raziel, flourishing the sword.
In my youth, I witnessed William's rise to power, and his transformation into the 'Nemesis'
who laid waste to Nosgoth.
#RAZIEL
[(steely)
Keep your distance, Kain.
*Kain walks slowly forward, Reaver in hand, as he speaks.

#ΚΑΙΝ
Years later, I stumble upon a chance to journey back in history, unaware that the entire
affair has been carefully orchestrated by Moebius.
In my wisdom, I seize this opportunity to murder the young king before he can ravage
Nosgoth...
...and thereby provide the catalyst Moebius needs to ignite a genocidal war against our
race.
*Raziel grows more agitated as Kain advances.
#RAZIEL
I warn you – no further!
*Kain continues, his voice taking on a greater sense of urgency.

#ΚΑΙΝ
This one reckless act unravels the skein of history.
The Nemesis never becomes the Nemesis; William dies a martyred saint.
I, the vampire assassin, become the author of my own species' extinction.
And Moebius profits from it all. I destroyed a tyrant only to create one far worse.
*Kain gestures toward the stained glass window, which depicts a lionized William and a
*demonized Kain in combat, both armed with the Soul Reaver.
But how can it be so? How, if history is immutable?
*Kain advances slowly on Raziel, gripping the Soul Reaver. As he approaches, the feeling of
*displacement intensifies.
The answer is here in this room, Raziel.
Moebius propelled William and me together – but ensured first that we were both armed with
the Soul Reaver.

#ΚΑΙΝ
The Reaver is the key.
Two incarnations of the blade meet in time and space... a paradox is created, a temporal
distortion powerful enough to derail history.
*As Kain takes a final step toward Raziel, the surrounding distortion reaches its peak, and
*the wraith-blade begins to manifest of its own will. Raziel reacts in alarm –
#RAZIEL
Is this your sorcery?
#ΚΑΙΝ
Not mine, Raziel – yours.
You have nothing to fear from me, Raziel.
You hold all the cards.

*Kain turns the blade and extends it to Raziel, hilt first. Raziel reaches out tentatively
*and takes the Reaver – Kain releases the blade willingly, and extends his hands to show
*that there's no deception. As Raziel grips the hilt, the displacement intensifies around
*them.
*Raziel addresses Kain icily. As he speaks, the wraith energy of the Reaver manifests and
*begins to twine itself around the physical blade.
#RAZIEL
Then perhaps I should test your sincerity.
*Swiftly, Raziel brings the point of the blade up to Kain's throat. Kain steps back, and
*Raziel advances with him, keeping the sword at his throat.
If what you say is true, you should be terrified. I could kill you here and now.
*Kain responds, clearly apprehensive, but also strangely resigned –
#ΚΑΙΝ
And so you do, Raziel.

*The blade begins to tremble slightly, as if possessed of its own will. Raziel is confused
*and alarmed –
#RAZIEL
What's happening?
*The trembling intensifies as Raziel struggles against the pull of the Reaver.
#ΚΑΙΝ
We are hurtling toward our destinies, Raziel. What you feel is the pull of history rushing
to meet us.
This is where history and destiny collide.
*The Reaver lunges at Kain – he stumbles against William's sarcophagus, and falls to the
*ground. As Raziel fights to resist the pull of the blade, Kain urges him with earnest
*intensity.

#ΚΑΙΝ
If you truly believe in free will, Raziel, now is the time to prove it.
Kill me now, and we both become pawns of history, dragged down the path of an artificial
destiny.
I was ordained to assume the role of Balance Guardian in Nosgoth, while you were destined
to be its savior. But the map of my fate was redrawn by Moebius, and so in turn was
yours...
*Raziel struggles to maintain control.
#RAZIEL
This is madness!
#ΚΑΙΝ
Fight it, Raziel... This moment does not have to be an ending – it can become a prelude.

*The pull of the Reaver is too powerful; Raziel is losing strength.
#RAZIEL
I can't...
#ΚΑΙΝ
You can, Raziel – look inside and see that it is so. You have the power to reshape our
inevitable futures.
*Raziel raises the Soul Reaver and brings it down violently. Kain turns his head and tenses
*for the impact. The sword crashes downward in a blinding flash of light, and Raziel
*staggers back, his hand now free of the blade.
*Raziel has diverted the Reaver's course, avoiding Kain by mere inches – the blade stands
*embedded in William's sarcophagus, the impact having fractured the stone.
*Rising unsteadily, Kain regards the impaled, fractured coffin, and makes a weak attempt at
*a joke –
#ΚΑΙΝ
...poor William.

*At once, the room is overwhelmed by an indescribable disturbance – their surroundings warp
*and blur, and a colossal groaning fills the air as history labors to admit this
*alteration.
*Raziel looks around the room in confusion and alarm.
#RAZIEL
What is this?
#KAIN
History abhors a paradox, Raziel.
Even now, the time-stream strains to divert itself, finding its old course blocked by your
refusal to destroy me.
The future is reshuffling itself to accommodate your monumental decision.
*As Kain continues, the distortion begins to subside.

#ΚΑΙΝ
This is where we restore ourselves, Raziel, and reclaim our intended destinies.
It may yet be possible for me to assume my role as Balance Guardian and return the Pillars
to their rightful inheritors –
*Raziel interrupts disdainfully –
#RAZIEL
– to the vampires.
And this is the destiny you have urged me to discover?
I don't know what game you and Moebius are playing, Kain – but I refuse to be your pawn.
Unlike you, I still revere whatever shred of humanity I've managed to preserve.
You will not use me as the instrument of your messianic delusions.
*Raziel turns his back on Kain and strides out of the chapel.

#ΚΑΙΝ
Very well, Raziel. I'll not ask you to trust me – your truths are for you to discover
alone.
*Raziel pauses briefly, and replies without turning –
#RAZIEL
Humble words for one who presumes to teach me a lesson at every turn.
#ΚΑΙΝ
Then continue your journey and learn your own lessons, Raziel.
Remember – Moebius led you here, but you walk away unfettered. A champion of free will, and
conqueror of false histories.
*Raziel stalks away without looking back.
#KAIN
There is much more for you to unearth, if you have the heart for the truth and the will to
see it...

-CHAPTER 9 – TIME STREAMING
*Following his history-altering encounter with Kain in the chapel, Raziel returns to the
*Circle's gathering-room. Armed with the Light Reaver, he is now able to unlock the second
*Time Streaming chamber.
*Just as the chamber's door slides open, Moebius rushes into the room, shaken and alarmed.
*He knows that Kain has survived what was supposed to have been a fatal encounter with
*Raziel in the chapel, and that the course of history has therefore been changed.
*Raziel greets Moebius smugly, realizing that he has the upper hand, and relishing it.
#RAZIEL
Ah, yes – I like that look on your face, Moebius. You really don't know what to do now,
do you, old man?
Here you are – caught without your damned staff – and I suspect things aren't progressing
quite as you'd hoped.
You're not used to the fly turning to confront you in your web, are you?

*Genuinely shocked and distressed, Moebius struggles to regain control of the situation. He
*admonishes Raziel –
#MOEBIUS
Kain's devious influence has poisoned your mind, Raziel.
Now you see betrayal everywhere, even in your closest allies.
#RAZIEL
We were never allies, Moebius.
Conspirators, perhaps. Briefly.
#MOEBIUS
Why did you not kill Kain when you had the chance? He was at your mercy!

#RAZIEL
Precisely. I had a choice, and I chose mercy.
And now I know your sordid little secret – the significance of that displacement I felt
when the two Reavers came together.
Strangely enough, I was enlightened by the 'devious' Kain, not by you.
In fact, I've learned much more than you counted on – I understand now how you've tried to
manipulate all of history for your own personal gain.
But now all your little schemes are whirling in ruin around you, aren't they?
All because I chose to exert my will for once, rather than obey the demands of sorcerers
and spirits and demons all singing the same tiresome refrain: 'kill Kain!'
I'm setting my own path from here, Moebius.
I intend to discover the truth behind all of this.

#MOEBIUS
But you condemn us all with this impetuous act!
#RAZIEL
Hardly impetuous; it took all the will I could muster.
Has my refusal to kill Kain reshuffled your carefully stacked deck of cards?
*Moebius responds angrily –
#MOEBIUS
You really think that you're exercising your free will, Raziel?
You're simply Kain's servant –
#RAZIEL
[(steely)
I do not serve Kain. I merely did not kill him.

*Desperate, Moebius implores Raziel –
#MOEBIUS
Raziel, do not forget your purpose here – you are destined to be the savior of Nosgoth!
*Raziel replies disdainfully –
#RAZIEL
Oh, I'm sick of hearing that particular phrase.
As for saving Nosgoth, so far I see precious little reason to bother.
And I'll choose my own 'purpose' from here on out, Time-Streamer.
Right now, I choose to manipulate you, for a change.
Go – in there.
*Raziel summons the wraith-blade and flourishes it at Moebius threateningly. Gesturing with
*the Reaver, Raziel directs Moebius toward the Time Streaming chamber.

*Moebius refuses to move –
#MOEBIUS
What are you doing?
#RAZIEL
Come now, Moebius – you're a cunning serpent... you'll piece it together, I imagine.
*Raziel shoves Moebius and brandishes the Reaver to usher him into the chamber.
#RAZIEL
This era is of no further use to me. You will operate this device to provide me passage.
I want to see the world in a simpler time – before the Sarafan began their crusade.
*Moebius obediently adjusts the device's arcane switches, but continues to entreat Raziel –
#MOEBIUS
And what about Kain? You're leaving your quarry behind!

#RAZIEL
You kill him, if it's so damned important.
#MOEBIUS
You need only touch the two poles of the switch, and the device will transport you.
But I urge you to reconsider –
*Raziel places his hands on the poles of the time-streaming device.
#RAZIEL
You've lost your powers of persuasion, old man.
Rot here and forget me.
*Moebius turns away dejectedly, but once his face is averted he breaks into a cunning grin.
*Raziel throws the switch, and the chamber blurs around him as he is swept to another time.

-CHAPTER 10 – MOEBIUS'S MARTYRED SPIRIT
*As Raziel exits the time-streaming chamber, he realizes that Moebius has deceived him.
*Rather than arriving in Nosgoth's past, he has been propelled into its ghastly future. The
*Stronghold is derelict, abandoned and overrun by demons.
*As he departs, Raziel encounters the spectre of Moebius, dead now for a century following
*his murder at Kain's hands.
*Moebius greets Raziel in an anguished, withered voice –
#MOEBIUS
Raziel...
#RAZIEL
What pathetic charade is this now, Moebius?
#MOEBIUS
No charade, Raziel. Only the entreaties of this martyred spirit.

#RAZIEL
Your pleas mean nothing to me, after all your deceit.
You have propelled me into Nosgoth's future, Moebius – and left me stranded here.
#MOEBIUS
I am truly sorry, Raziel, but it was necessary. Consider it the last valiant act of a
doomed man.
You have strayed from your purpose, and now behold the result – gaze upon the wasteland you
and Kain authored together!
#RAZIEL
I fail to see how I'm responsible –

#MOEBIUS
You spared Kain! And by doing so, you have released a multitude of horrors upon this world.
I can accept that Kain has murdered me, Raziel. As the Time Guardian, I foresaw that
incident long before it occurred.
And I take some small comfort in the fact that Kain remains the sole survivor of his vile
breed.
But you have single-handedly made my sacrifice meaningless.
#RAZIEL
Your argument is disingenuous, Time-Streamer.
I cannot see how killing or sparing Kain's future self would alter these events.
This wasteland was created by Kain's original refusal at the Pillars – and amidst all these
twists and turns, that event has never changed.
You are cunning, Moebius – but I think you've gotten tangled in your own web.

#MOEBIUS
As Kain clings to his precious seat of power, the Pillars sink into a mire of decay,
dragging all of Nosgoth down with them!
#RAZIEL
I don't think this has anything to do with the Pillars or Kain's failure to sacrifice
himself.
I think you're simply afraid – because you don't know what he's up to.
He's a wild-card, isn't he, and you don't want his influence in your game.
Which is why you wanted me to eliminate him.
Now that he's survived, you have no idea what's coming, do you? Maybe for the first time in
your entire life.
You're terrified that he may have truly found a third option out of the dilemma you
orchestrated for him.

#MOEBIUS
Kain's lies have addled your mind.
Leave this place, and trouble my spirit no more!
*Incredulous, Raziel taunts Moebius –
#RAZIEL
If you even are a spirit.
You've forgotten I have a way to tell for sure...
*Raziel grabs his cowl as though prepared to devour Moebius's soul –
...if you're willing to risk it.
*Moebius scowls at Raziel, and vanishes.
#RAZIEL
I didn't think so.
Either way, you lose.

-CHAPTER 11 – ARIEL'S LAMENT
*Stranded now in Nosgoth's nightmarish future, Raziel enters the ruined Pillars clearing
*and sees the devastation wrought by Kain's fateful decision a century ago. Toppled columns
*litter the clearing, their sheared-off stumps protruding crookedly, like broken teeth.
*Raziel stands in stunned silence for a moment as he surveys this apocalyptic scene.
#RAZIEL V.O.
These were the Pillars so familiar to my blighted eyes.
But now that I had begun to learn their true significance, I regarded the Pillars'
destruction with a new, enlightened sense of horror.
And I questioned now whether Kain's simple refusal – his mere ambition – could truly have
caused such devastation.
I felt that some darker influence was at work here.

*In the gloom, Raziel sees the spectre of Ariel drifting restlessly among the toppled
*Pillars.
#RAZIEL V.O.
As I approached, I discerned the spirit of Ariel – bound here now for more than a century.
As Raziel approaches, he hears Ariel lamenting to herself, unaware of his presence.
#ARIEL
Forever am I bound, hope abandoned, my spirit tethered to this place...
What destroyed the Circle could not touch me. For I was newly dead, and beyond harm's
reach.
I alone was spared the descent into madness, and Kain alone was spared the pain of death.
When Nupraptor's poison seized Kain even in the safety of the womb, much more than just
his destiny was lost. All of Nosgoth lost Balance.

#ARIEL
Consider us now... both of us less than we once were.
I, pure but insubstantial; and Kain terribly real, but corrupted.
*Raziel interrupts Ariel's reverie, and she turns in alarm.
#RAZIEL
Your imprisonment here has deranged you, spirit.
You fixate on Kain because you believe he is the tether that binds you here. But we both
know he is not the author of your agony.
The Pillars were subverted by dark forces, invited by the Guardians themselves.
The more I learn of your Circle, the more I see a tangle of nested manipulations.

*Ariel responds angrily –
#ARIEL
Kain handed them their victory.
They sought to topple the Pillars, and he was their willing instrument.
*Raziel interrupts, challenging her –
#RAZIEL
Or was he their unwilling pawn?
Would it blunt your wrath to know that Kain's dilemma was calculated to bring the Pillars
down, regardless of the choice he made?
And that the devastation would have been even greater had he chosen the path you would
prescribe for him?

#ARIEL
You are a subtle, deceitful creature.
But your clever arguments do not absolve Kain.
He must die for the Pillars to be restored; there is no other way.
#RAZIEL
Then consider this more ominous possibility – what if Kain's death does not restore the
Pillars?
Consider that it may simply be too late. That this world may be beyond redemption.
And that you may be bound here eternally.
*Distraught, Ariel flees into the spirit realm, unaware that Raziel is able to follow.
*Raziel shifts into spectral and startles her as she cowers behind the Balance Pillar.

*Cornered and miserable, Ariel implores Raziel –
#ARIEL
Why do you hound me, demon?
You can see that I am captive here. Show me some mercy.
#RAZIEL
Like the mercy you showed your fellow Guardians when you set Kain on them?
Or the mercy you showed Kain when you kept him ignorant of his destiny while you used him
as the scourge of the Circle?
Or perhaps like the mercy you showed your beloved Nupraptor when you made him Kain's first
kill?
#ARIEL
You are cruel. Why do you torment me?

*Weary of this, Raziel relents –
#RAZIEL
I'm merely looking for answers, Ariel.
Very well – I'll leave you in peace.
But know this – about you, and this purgatory from which you long to escape...
...you're merely at the threshold.

-CHAPTER 12 – RAZIEL DEFIES THE ELDER
*Raziel revisits the subterranean Pillars grotto after having been propelled over a
*century into Nosgoth's ghastly future. He is shocked to discover how the Elder God has
*encroached into the chamber – its tentacles wind chokingly around the shattered Pillars,
*and the room's murals have been nearly obliterated by the passage of its grasping limbs.
*The Elder God greets Raziel disdainfully –
#ELDER GOD
Raziel, the failed assassin.
You had Kain at your mercy but lacked the courage to fulfill the act.
And now you see the wasteland wrought by the tyrant's hand. By his selfish decision to
preserve his own life, even when it meant sacrificing the whole world.
This is the fate of Nosgoth, as long as Kain remains alive.

#RAZIEL
An ironic condemnation, given this guilty scene.
One would think you'd torn down the Pillars single-handedly.
What are you trying to obliterate as you drag your loathsome body through this chamber?
And why, as Nosgoth descends into madness and misery, do you appear to thrive?
Things in this world, I am learning, are rarely what they seem.
You, apparently, are no exception.
#ELDER GOD
[(angrily)
I am the Engine of Life, the source of Nosgoth's very existence.
I am the hub of the Wheel, the origin of all Life, the devourer of Death.

#RAZIEL
...or maybe you're just hungry – could it be as simple as that?
Wouldn't that be poetic irony? The great adversary of the vampires turns out to be the
biggest parasite of them all.
#ELDER GOD
Do not test my patience, Raziel.
I made you, and I will unmake you if I become so inclined.
#RAZIEL
[(mocking)
As your agent, I am beyond death.
#ELDER GOD
There are fates worse than death, Raziel.

*Raziel responds with disgust –
#RAZIEL
Oh, I see you now as you truly are.
A cancer – a spooling parasite burrowed deep in the heart of this world.
#ELDER GOD
[(ominously)
Go now.
Play out your pitiful rebellion, and take your place among the destroyed, the used, and the
damned.
But know this – you are mine for eternity.
You have always been, and will always be, my soul reaver...

-CHAPTER 13 – THE RUINED AERIE
*Exploring the blasted landscape of Nosgoth's future, Raziel discovers the ruins of an
*ancient cliff-dwelling civilization. The majestic facades are collapsed and toppled, as
*though some great upheaval occurred here ages ago.
*Raziel stands on a terrace beneath the cliffs, surveying the devastated architecture.
#RAZIEL V.O.
This edifice was clearly not crafted by human architects. As the figure beneath the balcony
silently attested, these were the aeries of winged beings.
Undoubtedly, I stood before the mountain refuge of the legendary Janos Audron – but the
entire sanctuary lay in ruin, collapsed under the force of some ancient cataclysm.
As I suspected, the Time Streamer's deception ensured that I was centuries too late to
unearth anything of consequence here.

*Raziel scans the ruined canyon, and sees a narrow pass leading off to the west.
#RAZIEL V.O.
With nothing behind me but the wasteland I had traversed, I resolved to press on and
explore these canyons further.
*Hearing footsteps behind him, Raziel turns to see Kain approaching.
*He acknowledges Kain wryly –
#RAZIEL
Oh, no. Every time you turn up something monumental and terrible happens.
I don't think I have the stomach for it.
#ΚΑΙΝ
[(laughs softly)
No drama this time, Raziel.

#RAZIEL
You are persistent, crossing time like this to follow me.
Still waiting for that coin of yours to land on its edge?
*Kain joins Raziel on the terrace overlooking the canyon.
#KAIN
I'm biding my time.
*He glances up at the ruined balcony above –
#KAIN
I see that Moebius has played a little trick on you.
#RAZIEL
Yes – he clearly doesn't want me to meet this 'Janos Audron'.

*Kain looks away thoughtfully –
#ΚΑΙΝ
Perhaps...
*Then, with sarcasm –
Or maybe he merely hoped that it would harden your heart against me to see this wasteland
which I single-handedly authored.
#RAZIEL
My heart doesn't need hardening, Kain.
If I even suspected that destroying you would make any difference, I would do it this
instant.

#ΚΑΙΝ
[(laughs approvingly)
I knew you'd see through them, Raziel.
Janos is indeed the key to your destiny, but you'll need to find your own way back into
Nosgoth's past.
Make no mistake though, Raziel – you and I are now in great danger.
We are irritants here – malevolent forces are being marshaled to eliminate us.
#RAZIEL
You talk as though we're allies.
#ΚΑΙΝ
Regardless of your sentiments, Raziel, in their eyes – we are.

#RAZIEL
Well, they're certainly trying to eliminate you, Kain, there can be no doubt of that.
I am assaulted relentlessly with demands for your demise.
Whatever it is that you're plotting, they're scared to death of you.
As for me, I suspect they made a grave error when they allowed my unique resurrection.
I don't think they know how to destroy me.
#ΚΑΙΝ
You mustn't underestimate them, Raziel.

#RAZIEL
And who exactly is this diabolical 'they' to which we keep referring?
If there's some grand conspiracy going on, the right hand doesn't appear to know what the
left is doing.
Even Moebius seems to be caught out at every turn.
#ΚΑΙΝ
Moebius is a puppet, Raziel – haven't you realized that yet?
That's the sweetest irony in all of this – Nosgoth's 'great manipulator' is their
plaything.
But the ones pulling the strings haven't shown their faces, yet.

#RAZIEL
They don't like us unwriting their carefully choreographed history, though, do they?
*Kain corrects Raziel –
#ΚΑΙΝ
You must understand, Raziel – we haven't unwritten history, we've merely rewritten it.
The future flows around our petty actions, finding the path of least resistance while
admitting only the slightest alterations.
This is the reshuffling you felt, when you refused to kill me.
And remember, Raziel, we are irritants in this regard, as well – history will not allow the
introduction of a paradox.

#RAZIEL
And if events cannot be reshuffled to accommodate the change?
#ΚΑΙΝ
It is the irritant who's expelled.
Bear in mind that this may be exactly the outcome our enemies are trying to provoke.
We must tread very carefully.
*With this admonition, Kain vanishes.

-CHAPTER 14 – THE TENTH GUARDIAN
*Having finally reached the summit of Janos Audron's balcony chamber, Raziel enters the
*room cautiously. He has traversed Nosgoth and crossed time to meet this being, but has
*no idea what to expect – whether Janos is the monster depicted by the Sarafan, or one of
*the noble figures memorialized among the ruins of the ancient vampires.
*As he enters, Raziel discerns a striking, winged figure standing at the far end of the
chamber, silhouetted by the wintry, morning light filtering in from the canyon beyond.
*Raziel addresses the winged figure tentatively –
#RAZIEL
Janos Audron?
*Janos turns slowly at the sound of Raziel's voice –
#JANOS
It is heartening, after all these years, to hear my name spoken without contempt.

*As he turns, his features are illuminated by the fire-lit glow of the chamber. This is not
*the demonic creature depicted in the Stronghold – Janos is darkly beautiful, and radiates
*a sense of priestly detachment, and long-suffering patience.
*Janos appears to recognize Raziel, but regards him with horror and pity. Raziel's features
*are vaguely vampiric – his blue skin, cloven hands, and wings – but this emaciated, ragged
*spectre looks as though he has been nearly destroyed.
#JANOS
Raziel?
My child, what have they done to you?
#RAZIEL
I have been dragged through hell and back – all, it seems, to reach this moment.
But I don't yet know why.

*Janos speaks haltingly, as though not sure where to begin –
#JANOS
For thousands of years, I have waited... alone here, losing faith...
At the time of the Binding, nine guardians were called to serve the Pillars. And I was
summoned as the tenth guardian – the keeper of the Reaver, the weapon of our salvation.
Over time, our race died out. Until I alone remained... sustained only by my obligation to
you, and by my guardianship of the blade.
*Janos turns and walks contemplatively toward the balcony –
#RAZIEL
And the other nine? Why did their guardianship not sustain them?

*Janos considers for a moment, then responds wistfully –
#JANOS
I don't know.
*Janos gazes beyond the balcony pensively as he recounts the vampires' history –
#JANOS
As our race dwindled, the humans prospered. I have watched, over the centuries, as our
history faded into myth, and finally receded altogether.
The humans have forgotten us entirely, and claimed the Pillars for themselves – wholly
ignorant of their true purpose.
To them, I am merely a devil; the origin of their vampire 'plague'.
*Raziel approaches inquisitively –
#RAZIEL
Why would the Pillars summon human guardians, then, if they are meant to be served by
vampires?

*Janos walks to the edge of the balcony as he replies, gesturing for Raziel to follow –
#JANOS
The Pillars choose their guardians from birth, Raziel – and vampires are no longer born.
This is the crux of our dilemma.
And this is the terrible irony – with their vampire purge, the members of the Circle have
assaulted the very architects of the Pillars they are sworn to protect.
They have embarked on a treacherous path. With every vampire they kill, the humans are
slitting their own throats.
*Janos and Raziel stand together at the edge of the balcony, looking out at the canyon
*below. Janos continues, speaking softly –
#JANOS
They know I'm up here, beyond their reach, and it terrifies them.

*Janos gestures toward the panorama of Sarafan slaughter, below. A number of impaled
*vampire corpses litter the canyon, planted here to defy and intimidate Janos.
#JANOS
You can see how they flaunt their kills to torment me... or perhaps simply to lure me out.
They have this foolish notion that destroying me will somehow topple our entire bloodline.
Thankfully, we're not that fragile.
#RAZIEL
I have seen them mustering their forces in the village, below.
#JANOS
Yes. I don't know what they're plotting... but I fear our time may be bitterly short.

#RAZIEL
Mankind seems to have brought you only torment and grief.
You must hate them.
*Janos responds slowly, considering –
#JANOS
They fear what they don't understand; and they despise what they fear.
But no – I do not hate them.
#RAZIEL
Vorador does.
#JANOS
He has suffered much. He cannot forgive them.
#RAZIEL
Should they be forgiven?

#JANOS
They don't understand what they're doing.
They are simply unenlightened... and vulnerable to manipulation.
*Raziel considers this silently for a moment, then voices the question that's been
*tormenting him –
RAZIEL
So it's all true, then – what Kain and Vorador have told me – I really am some kind of
unholy vampire messiah...
*Janos gently corrects him –
#JANOS
Unholy? – no. Messiah... perhaps.
#RAZIEL
I don't like that word – it smells of martyrdom.

#JANOS
Raziel, your role in this world's destiny is more crucial – and more benevolent – than
you've allowed yourself to believe.
Your journey will not be easy – dark powers are allied against you.
*Janos pauses, considering Raziel's ragged appearance –
But I think you already know this... you appear to have been cruelly tested.
*Janos turns back toward the interior of the chamber.
The Binding must be secured, Raziel.
The Pillars are the lock –
*Following him, Raziel completes the thought –
#RAZIEL
– and the Reaver is the key.
#JANOS
Yes.

*Janos approaches a decorative chest set against the wall, and opens it – revealing the
*Reaver, ensconced like a holy relic.
*Raziel becomes strangely apprehensive. Each time he has encountered the Reaver during his
*journey, he has experienced a sense of displacement, the distortion caused when two
*incarnations of the Reaver meet in time and space. And now, inexplicably, he feels
*nothing. As disconcerting as the temporal distortion feels, this nothingness is somehow
*worse...
*Troubled, Raziel wonders quietly to himself –
#RAZIEL
The Reaver is here? Why do I feel nothing?
*Janos lifts the blade reverently and turns to Raziel, presenting it to him.
#JANOS
The most formidable weapon ever forged by our swordsmiths...
They infused the blade with vampiric energy, empowering the Reaver to drain our enemies of
their precious lifeblood.

#RAZIEL V.O.
As Janos presented the blade, an inexplicable sense of dread crept over me, more palpable
than anything I'd felt before.
I was at once horribly repelled by the sword and yet irresistibly compelled to touch it, to
take it up.
*Raziel refuses the blade with trepidation –
#RAZIEL
Please – take it away from me.
*At once, from the hallway comes the unmistakable sound of armored soldiers rapidly
*approaching. With sudden, sick recognition, Raziel realizes that by blazing a path for
*himself through the Retreat, he has unwittingly exposed Janos to the Sarafan.
*Janos appears dismayed, but oddly resigned –
#JANOS
I fear you have been followed...

*With this, the door crashes open, and a squad of Sarafan warriors burst into the room.
*Their leader is armed with a cruel-looking weapon, and they have come bearing Moebius's
*staff – Raziel realizes at this moment that he has been duped and betrayed.
*Raziel charges forward to defend Janos from the Sarafan, but Janos restrains him –
#JANOS
You must save yourself, Raziel.
*Janos lays his hands upon Raziel, intent on conveying him safely away from the chamber.
*Raziel resists –
#RAZIEL
Janos – no!
*But his protests are in vain. The room recedes dizzyingly, as Raziel is propelled into an
*adjacent chamber within the Retreat – safely away from the Sarafan, and helpless to save
*Janos.

#RAZIEL V.O.
My surroundings whirled sickeningly, and I found myself transported safely away from
the ambush, to an adjacent chamber.
Janos had delivered me from the Sarafan, selflessly forfeiting his own safety to preserve
my life.
And now I feared that my newfound mentor would be slaughtered by the very crusaders I had
so recently revered.
The irony pierced me, and with dawning horror I realized that I had been duped by Moebius
from the beginning...
For the Sarafan had simply followed the path I gullibly blazed through this sanctuary, and
had arrived bearing Moebius's staff. Thus armed, they had Janos at their mercy.
Through the door, I could hear them battling, less than a dozen paces away – but it may as
well have been a thousand miles, for this barrier was sealed by elemental forces I did not
possess.

#RAZIEL V.O.
[(continued)
It seemed Janos had conveyed me into the heart of the Fire shrine. I thought perhaps if I
could galvanize the forge and imbue the Reaver in time, I might have a slim chance of
saving Janos from his grisly fate.

-CHAPTER 15 – THE DEATH OF JANOS AUDRON
*Imbuing the Reaver with the elemental power of fire, Raziel is finally able to unlock the
*sealed door which separates him from Janos and his assassins. Raziel rushes through the
*door as it slowly slides open, and races toward Janos' chamber.
*Having rendered Janos helpless with the aid of Moebius's staff, the Sarafan have the
*ancient vampire pinned to the table.
*As Janos struggles against his captors, the head inquisitor commands his fellow Sarafan –
#SARAFAN RAZIEL
Hold him!
*Savoring the moment, the inquisitor raises his cruel-looking blade – then, bringing it
*down violently, he rips Janos' chest open.
#JANOS
[(screams in agony)

*Raziel reaches the threshold of the chamber too late. He watches in horror as the
*inquisitor reaches into Janos' open chest cavity and tears out his living heart.
*He raises it triumphantly for the other Sarafan to see –
#TUREL
Look at his black heart, how it still beats!
*Raziel prepares to leap into the fray, and then is frozen – as the head inquisitor turns,
*raising the heart, Raziel gets a clear look at the man's face. And he realizes that he has
*just watched himself – his former, Sarafan self – murder Janos.
*Raziel and his Sarafan alter-ego lock eyes on each other – Raziel gaping in horror upon
*recognizing his former self, and Sarafan Raziel strangely haunted by the appearance of the
*demonic figure before him.
*As Janos begins to die, a tremor shakes the Retreat. The chamber rocks with the impact,
*and begins to collapse under the strain.

#DUMAH
[(alarmed)
The fiend intends to bury us alive!
*Then, trying to break their leader out of his trance –
Raziel, we must get out of here!
*Sarafan Raziel cannot tear his eyes from this demonic apparition. With his gaze still
*locked on Raziel, he commands his fellow Sarafan –
#SARAFAN RAZIEL
Remember the sword!
*Dumah grabs up the Reaver, and with the sword and Janos' heart in their possession, the
*Sarafan rush out of the chamber just as the entire Retreat threatens to collapse around
*them.

*Heedless of the retreating Sarafan, Raziel leaps down to where Janos lies dying –
*incredibly, the ancient vampire is still alive, but only barely. Raziel kneels
*disconsolately beside him – bereft at the loss of his new-found mentor, and horrified at
*this latest epiphany: that he himself was Janos' murderer.
#RAZIEL
Forgive me; I'm sorry... I failed you.
#JANOS
[(gently)
No, Raziel.
Perhaps this was my true purpose – simply to save your life this once.
#RAZIEL
[(distraught)
While I have taken yours...

#JANOS
[(dying)
Embrace your destiny, Raziel...
You must reclaim the Reaver – it was forged for you and you alone...
Without it, there is no hope...
*Janos dies, and the Retreat is rocked again by a powerful quake. The chamber's vaults
*collapse as their support beams crumble, and the exits are filled by cascading rubble.
*As the tremors subside, Raziel rises and steps slowly away from Janos' corpse, horrified
*by these new revelations, and nursing a growing ember of hatred.
#RAZIEL V.O.
As I backed away from Janos' body, I was overwhelmed by a sense of self-loathing so deep,
I could barely contain it.

#RAZIEL V.O.
In that instant, I rejected all that I ever was, and embraced the role Janos had
safeguarded for me so patiently throughout the centuries.
I knew then what I had to do – the task for which I was uniquely prepared...
*Walking slowly to the edge of the balcony, Raziel gazes out upon Nosgoth's landscape.
I would pursue the Sarafan dogs to their loathsome fortress, and avenge Janos Audron's
murder.
Moebius would pay dearly for his treachery, and my Sarafan brethren would reap the horrors
they had sown.
I would retake the stolen Reaver, which was rightfully mine.
And finally, when all these debts had been paid, I would reclaim Janos Audron's heart from
their filthy, unworthy hands.

#RAZIEL V.O.
If the heart was truly imbued with the power to restore vampiric unlife, its highest
purpose was clear to me...
I would restore the heart to Janos, and thus undo the vile crime committed by my abominable
former self.
*As Raziel stands on the balcony, the canyon is shaken by a final, massive tremor. He leaps
*clear of the tumbling wreckage just before the vaults of Janos' chamber collapse
*completely.
*Gliding safely into the canyon below, Raziel turns and looks up to see that the façade of
*Janos' mountain aerie has been reduced to rubble.

- CHAPTER 16 – THE FINAL TRANSGRESSION
*Having renounced his Sarafan heritage, Raziel trails his former brethren back to the
*Stronghold to avenge Janos Audron's murder. In the course of his pursuit, Raziel visits
*the subterranean Pillars chamber for the last time.
*The Elder God greets him with ominous finality –
#ELDER GOD
You have failed me, Raziel.
#RAZIEL
I wonder, Old One...
Did you truly resurrect me, or were you simply there when I awakened from my torment in the
Abyss?
I suspect you found me merely convenient. Dropped in your lair by Kain, indestructible for
some reason. A durable and gullible tool for you to manipulate.

#RAZIEL
[(continued)
This one thing I readily admit – I have been used by others time and again. But always I
seem to stray from their path... what is it about me, Demon, that makes me such an
unreliable instrument?
Why do I survive one trial after another... on and on in an endless succession of
humiliating deaths and resurrections? It seems there is much more to my destiny, and my
history, than I know.
Perhaps more than you know, as well...

-CHAPTER 17 – CORNERED IN THE STRONGHOLD
*Raziel has pursued the Sarafan to their Stronghold, resolved to avenge Janos Audron's
*murder, recover his heart, and reclaim the stolen Reaver. Charging through the
*Stronghold's corridors, Raziel finds himself at a dead end, in an antechamber off of the
*cloister.
*The Reaver is here, laid out across a basin in the center of the room – as if propped here
*for Raziel to discover.
*Raziel stops short – for here is the blade that stirred such unsettling premonitions when
*Janos presented it to him. As before, he feels no distortion in its presence, which
*troubles him – he is repelled and afraid, yet irresistibly drawn toward the sword.
#RAZIEL V.O.
Suddenly and inexplicably, I discovered the Reaver, suspiciously laid across my path.

#RAZIEL V.O.
Again, I sensed nothing of that 'temporal distortion,' the peculiar sense of displacement
I had felt when I encountered the Reaver in William's chapel.
Cornered here with the blade, I suffered the same nameless dread that I had experienced
when Janos first presented the Reaver to me.
I felt at once repelled by the blade, and yet overwhelmingly compelled to seize it.
*Suddenly Moebius and the Sarafan Malek appear in the doorway behind Raziel, cutting off
*his exit. He's been ambushed.
*Wheeling on them, Raziel summons the wraith-blade – but Moebius has arrived bearing his
*staff, and as the orb flares, the wraith-blade flickers and dies.
*Moebius's demeanor has changed dramatically since their last encounter. Gone are all signs
*of the sniveling, pandering magician – Moebius is cold, focused, and completely in
*control.

#MOEBIUS
So, Raziel – here we are, finally.
You have no choice but to confront me now – and I am not so foolish as I've let you
believe.
We have business to conclude.
#RAZIEL
[(enraged)
You knew I would lead the Sarafan to Janos, you vile bastard!
You've been orchestrating my every move!
#MOEBIUS
[(simply laughs)
#RAZIEL
My destiny is an amusement to you?
#MOEBIUS
It was fun, while it lasted.

*Raziel takes a threatening step forward, and Moebius motions to Malek.
#MOEBIUS
I think not, Raziel.
Malek, do not let this creature leave. He poses a danger to the Circle.
*Malek steps in front of Moebius, brandishing his pike –
Poor, deluded Raziel... did you somehow imagine you had the guile to change history on me?
I'm the Time-Streamer – I knew your every intention before you did, you imbecile.
*Suddenly, the sounds of a far-off disturbance echo through the chamber. Screams, terrified
*cries for Malek, and the unmistakable laughter of the vampire Vorador reverberate through
*the stone corridors.
#VORADOR
[(in the distance)
Call your dogs – they can feast on your corpses!

*Malek turns instinctively, prepared to defend the Guardians he has sworn to protect – but
*Moebius calmly raises a hand to restrain him. Malek entreats him –
#MALEK
Lord Moebius, there is trouble within. The Circle is under attack –
#MOEBIUS
[(cold, focused)
Hold fast, Malek.
This one is the real danger to us.
*Raziel backs slowly toward the basin where the Reaver is laid out.
#RAZIEL
What are you trying to concoct here, Moebius?
#MOEBIUS
[(hatefully)
You toxic creature – did you imagine I'd simply allow you to run loose, corrupting
everything you encounter?

#RAZIEL
I admit that I've underestimated you to this point, Moebius – but it's a mistake I won't
repeat.
*With his wraith-blade disabled by the influence of Moebius's staff, Raziel has no choice
*but to take up the Reaver. He grabs the hilt and advances on Moebius and Malek.
*This is the moment Moebius was waiting for –
#MOEBIUS
[(ominously)
Wrong again, Raziel.
*Moebius and Malek back out of the open doorway.
#MOEBIUS
Now, Malek – bolt the door!
*Raziel rushes forward, but the portcullis slams down just as he reaches the door.

*Turning back toward the chamber, he contemplates the Reaver now clutched in his grasp, and
*realizes that he has no choice but to press forward into the cloister.
#RAZIEL V.O.
Using his staff to disable my wraith-blade, Moebius effectively disarmed me, leaving me
with only one choice of weapon.
And yet I confess, it was not the lack of options, but blind rage that made me take up the
Reaver – in my fury, it felt as though my hand had acted of its own will.
And now that same hand clutched the hilt with unyielding strength – and I felt a
constrained tingling, a remote but palpable sense of longing as the disabled wraith-blade
tried vainly to embrace its physical twin.

-CHAPTER 18 – VENGEANCE
*As Raziel pursues the Sarafan through the Stronghold, he confronts each of his former
*brethren in turn, exacting revenge for Janos' murder. After being ambushed by Moebius and
*Malek, Raziel proceeds cautiously into the cloister, now armed with the Reaver. Here he
*encounters Melchiah and Zephon, who have apparently been dispatched to confront him here.
#ZEPHON
Come to take your revenge, demon?
#MELCHIAH
Back to hell with you!
*Raziel looks upon his former brethren with disgust, relishing his advantage over them.

#RAZIEL V.O.
I recognized these two as my former brethren... in life, as Sarafan; and in unlife, as
Kain's vampire 'sons.'
Melchiah and Zephon, the weakest of Kain's brood... These bastards had no idea what future
lay in store for them – how they would become the very thing they so despised.
The Reaver hummed with ravenous anticipation – Janos had called it a 'vampiric' blade,
endowed with the power to drain its victims of their lifeblood.
I was eager to see what the Reaver would do to these two...
*The battle ensues, and the two Sarafan fall easily before the power of the Reaver.
*With his former brothers-in-arms lying dead at his feet, Raziel revels in the intoxicating
*power of the Reaver.

#RAZIEL V.O.
As Melchiah and Zephon fell before my blade, I felt the Reaver's blood-thirst as keenly as
I ever had when I was still a vampire.
I could sense the boundary between us dissolving – the Reaver was consumed with my rage,
and I was intoxicated by its bloodlust.
The blade had a vitalizing effect on me – my physical energy no longer decayed over time,
and the wounds inflicted by my foes healed almost instantly.
The Reaver had made me invincible.
*Raziel proceeds into the Stronghold's main Sanctuary, where he discovers Rahab and Dumah
*waiting for him.

#DUMAH
Have you come to reclaim the monster's black heart?
#RAHAB
You'll have to get through us, first.
*Raziel readies the Reaver eagerly, savoring his newly-discovered role in their ultimate
*destinies.
#RAZIEL V.O.
My former brethren Dumah and Rahab confronted me next – this all seemed so elegantly
choreographed.
Exhilarated by the Reaver, I was drunk with revelations...
I could finally appreciate the delicious irony of Kain's blasphemous, private joke – and I
reveled as I colluded with him across the centuries.
For it was I who put these bastards in their tomb – thus providing the corpses for Kain to
raise as his vampire sons a millennium from now.

*Upon defeating Dumah and Rahab, Raziel proceeds into the choir of the Sanctuary. Here,
*finally, Raziel is confronted by Turel – his former second-in-command, both as Sarafan and
*vampire.
*Turel advances on Raziel with self-righteous contempt –
#TUREL
Get back to the pit you crawled from, demon!
*Raziel regards his former brother-in-arms derisively –
#RAZIEL V.O.
And here at last was my brother Turel, who along with Dumah would bear me into the Abyss
without questioning Kain's command.
So dutiful and righteous, even as a vampire... I guess some habits die hard.
The vampire Turel had eluded my vengeance; the Sarafan Turel would not.

-CHAPTER 19 – RENUNCIATION
*Armed with the Reaver, Raziel has confronted and slain each of his former Sarafan brethren
*in turn. Entering the Chapter House of the Stronghold, he finally comes face to face with
*his former self – the Sarafan Inquisitor Raziel, who has apparently been waiting for him
*here.
*As he crosses the threshold, the portcullis slams down behind him – this is clearly a
*trap, calculated to channel Raziel into combat with the most formidable of the Sarafan
*commanders.
*The Inquisitor addresses Raziel with self-righteous disdain, blissfully ignorant of this
*demonic creature's true identity.
#SARAFAN RAZIEL
[(hatefully)
So, vampire – here we are.
You've destroyed my brethren – and now you've come for me?
You'll find I am not such easy prey.

#RAZIEL
I don't want to kill you, but I will if I must.
Return the heart to me, and we can end this now.
#SARAFAN RAZIEL
[(mocking)
So you've come to avenge that filthy parasite, and reclaim his foul heart?
You're a righteous fiend, aren't you?
#RAZIEL
[(referring to Sarafan Raziel)
Apparently I am.
#SARAFAN RAZIEL
[(icily)
No, vampire. This is where it ends, but you won't be leaving this room.
Now, let's finish this – I'll make it mercifully quick.

#RAZIEL
As you did for Janos.
#SARAFAN RAZIEL
[(laughs coldly)
No, that beast had eluded us for far too long.
It would have been a shame to end him too quickly.
*He continues, goading Raziel into battle –
It's ironic, really – the 'great Janos Audron' turned out to be no challenge at all...
thanks to you.
Did you hear his cowardly screams when I tore that black heart out of his carcass?
*Raziel can no longer contain his rage – raising the Reaver, he lunges at the Sarafan
*Inquisitor.

-CHAPTER 20 – FULL CIRCLE
*The Sarafan Inquisitor is defeated, and as he staggers, Raziel runs him through with the
*Reaver. Transfixed on the blade, Sarafan Raziel chokes and gasps as his lifeblood is
*drained from his body. Face to face in this deadly embrace, Raziel curses his former self
*with the solemnity of an oath –
#RAZIEL
[(with revulsion and finality)
I renounce you.
#SARAFAN RAZIEL
[(gasping and dying)
*The Sarafan Inquisitor collapses to the floor, and the Reaver blade slides free of his
*body.
#RAZIEL
[(quietly, to himself)
And so it ends. My history comes full circle.

*As Raziel stands over the corpse of his former self, the wraith blade begins to manifest,
*its power gradually returning. Raziel watches in growing alarm as the wraith blade
*abandons its symbiotic grip on his arm, and coils itself around its twin – its former,
*physical self – instead.
#RAZIEL V.O.
Sensing its twin, the wraith blade uncoiled itself from me – and instead wound lovingly
around its former self.
I felt its grip loosen, and as the blade left me, its absence chilled me more than its
presence ever had.
A foreboding sense of emptiness and loss stole over me... and a terrible revelation
gathered like a storm at the edge of my awareness...
*Thus joined, the twinned Reavers turn on Raziel – with the blade still bound to his hand,
*Raziel is dragged helplessly as the Reaver exerts its own will. Raziel struggles, but is
*powerless to resist the blades as they turn inexorably toward him.

#RAZIEL V.O.
[(a horrible epiphany)
With all other foes exhausted, the conjoined blades turned themselves on me. And I
realized, finally, why I had sensed nothing when Janos offered me the blade.
The Reaver was never forged to be a soul-stealing weapon...
*The Reaver plunges toward Raziel and impales him. His eyes widen in agony, despair and
*recognition –
...the ravenous, soul-devouring entity trapped in the blade was – and always had been – me.
This is why the blade was destroyed when Kain tried to strike me down – the Reaver could
not devour its own soul. The paradox shattered the blade.
So – this was my terrible destiny – to play out this purgatorial cycle for all eternity...
I could not bear it – despair overwhelmed me.

*Raziel falls to his knees, transfixed by the Reaver. His hand, still bound to the blade,
*forms a perverse vicious-circle as is soul is gradually but relentlessly drained away,
*absorbed slowly and torturously into the Reaver. Raziel strains against the blade, trying
*vainly to escape this horrible fate.
*At this moment, Kain reveals himself, stepping out from the shadows of the Chapter House.
*Raziel sees him, and immediately believes he has been betrayed – that this is a trap set
*by Kain himself.
*Overcome with rage and agony, Raziel accuses Kain –
#RAZIEL
You!
*Kain approaches, watching Raziel with intense fascination. Raziel cries out in anguish –
#RAZIEL
Are you enjoying this, Kain?!

#ΚΑΙΝ
[(intense)
Don't fight it, Raziel...
Give in to it...
#RAZIEL
[(in agony)
Was this your destiny for me, all along?!
*Kain urges him intently –
Trust me...
#ΚΑΙΝ
*Raziel's strength is fading; he begins to collapse.
#RAZIEL V.O.
I felt myself weakening... unable to hold on any longer. The Reaver was too strong... the
compulsion to simply let go too great...

*Out of strength, Raziel surrenders his will. As he nears the brink of oblivion, a
*fluttering distortion tangibly begins, and Raziel approaches a dawning revelation –
#RAZIEL V.O.
And then... a growing sense of vertigo, and the familiar displacement...
...the paradoxical moment when my twinned soul hovered both outside and inside the Reaver
blade...
This was the instant – the glimmer of temporal distortion – Kain had been counting
on all along.
This was the edge of the coin – the minute flicker of probability upon which Kain had
gambled everything.
*Kain lunges forward – and with a massive, history-defying effort, tears the Reaver from
*Raziel's chest.
#RAZIEL
[(screams in agony)

*The Reaver flies across the room, and the wraith blade flickers and fades as it is
*separated from its twin. Raziel falls forward, rescued from the threshold of oblivion,
*but nearly completely drained.
#ΚΑΙΝ
Now you are free to reclaim your true destiny, Raziel.
*Gradually, the room begins to warp around them as history strains to find a course around
*this new obstruction. As the future reshuffles itself, a look of horror slowly dawns on
*Kain's face. With new memories blooming in his mind, Kain realizes he may have just made a
*terrible mistake.
#RAZIEL V.O.
Behind Kain's eyes, I could see new memories blooming and dying, as history labored to
reshuffle itself around this monumental obstruction...

#RAZIEL V.O.
And I could see by the dawning horror on his face that perhaps we had strained history too
far this time...
...that by trying to alter my fate, he may have introduced a fatal paradox.
*Then the reshuffling begins to settle, as history finds its new course. But the horror on
*Kain's face remains, as he realizes what price has been paid to restore Raziel's future.
#ΚΑΙΝ
[(quiet, awestruck horror)
My god... the Hylden...
...we walked right into their trap...
*Then, with a sudden realization, Kain tries to warn Raziel –
Raziel! Janos must stay dead!

*But Raziel, drained almost to the point of annihilation, is losing consciousness. He falls
*to his knees, and begins to waver out of existence as he sinks into the spectral plane.
#RAZIEL V.O.
[(ominously)
But Kain's warning was lost as I slipped into the spirit realm, too weak to maintain my
physical form...
And there, waiting for me as always, was the Reaver – the wraith blade... my own soul,
twinned and bound eternally to me.
And I realized that I could never escape my terrible destiny... I had merely postponed
it.
History abhors a paradox.